Industrial pollutants are mainly discharged from various origins such as pulp and paper mills, chemical fertilizers, oil refineries, sugar factories, tanneries, textiles, steel, distilleries, fertilizers, pesticides, coal and mineral mining industries, drugs, glass, cement, petroleum, and engineering industries etc. 

Most of the industries dump via transporter to dumping places and thus there is no necessity for a check in the industry itself. The people staying nearby often utilize the same land and water for agricultural and daily purposes.  We believe that the industries should not take things lightly and especially for people staying nearby and the workers of the place a check should be there which when is necessary, warns the area of the contamination in soil and water. Industries have always had an intelligent solution about this. Dumping pipes always had a solvent which would dissolve the contamination if the level increases. This process is called neutralization But, this never gave the locals and the workers about information or statistical data about the amount of contamination currently present in the surroundings, instead all they get to know that the solvent is doing its job. We aim to target this problem by cost effective solutions.

We are trying to design a device which will measure the soil, water and air contamination in the area and warn the industries and local people when contamination limit exceeds. We are trying to make cost efficient product using IOT.
Budget:
